# Modeling-Kinetics-of-Lead-in-the-Human-Body

A mathematical model is a description of a system using mathematical concepts and language. The process of developing a mathematical model is termed mathematical modeling. Mathematical models are used not only in engineering disciplines (e.g. computer science, artificial intelligence) and in the social sciences (such as economics, psychology, sociology and political science), but also the natural sciences(such as physics, biology, earth science, meteorology). Physicists, engineers, statisticians, operations research analysts and economists use mathematical models most extensively. A model may help to explain a system and to study the effects of different components, and to make predictions about behavior. This study aims at the mathematical representation, treatment and modeling of biological processes, using a variety of applied mathematical techniques and tools. It has both theoretical and practical applications in biological, biomedical and biotechnology research. Lead is an important metal as far as modernization and industrialization is concern. Despite its relevance, it is a very strong poison. When a person swallows a lead object or breathes in lead dust, some of the poison can stay in the body and cause serious health problems. Here the body is divided into three compartments; the blood stream, the tissue and the bone. The model focuses on the rate of exchange of lead in the three compartments. We then determine the steady state solution, stability analyses and how the various compartments react to reasonable medical assumptions with graphical output from Mat lab.
